README.md, before:

# bonsai-menu

Easily create lightweight, attractive restaurant menu sites.

## Concepts

bonsai-menu reads configuration information from three JSON files: `bonsai.json`, `bonsai-menu.json`, and `hours.json`. This information is injected into the front-end using LiquidJS.

This project follows a "convention over configuration" mindset. bonsai-menu is designed to produce a functioning menu site as quickly as possible - even if that means making sacrifices in other areas. It should not take more than an hour to have a fully functioning menu site. *(depending on the length of the menu, of course)*

----

## Project Structure

**Configuration files:**

1. `bonsai.json` contains all "general" settings, as well as the majority of information about the restaurant itself (ex. name, address...).
2. `bonsai-menu.json` represents the menu itself. It is an array of "menu sections" - for example, "pizza" or "pasta." The individual items are nested within the sections.
3. `hours.json` holds information related to open/close times.

**`/dist`**

- The `dist` directory holds the source code. Note that the JavaScript files in this directory have been generated by the TypeScript compiler and are not intended to be edited.

- `app.js` is the entry point to the site. It sets up a route (GET "/"), runs some basic configuration functions, and starts listening on port `3040`.

- `types.js` is used primarily during development. This file probably shouldn't be changed too much if you don't know what you're doing.

- `Restaurant.js` and `Menu.js` define two classes, Restaurant and Menu (respectively). These two classes do the majority of the heavy lifting for bonsai-menu.

**`/static`**

- This directory contains static CSS and JavaScript files. You can safely edit the content of these files without worrying about doing significant damage.

- Note that there is an SCSS file in there as well. You are welcome to use SCSS or edit the `main.css` file directly. If you don't want to use SCSS, you can feel free to delete `main.scss`.

- Don't touch `main.css.map` unless you aren't using SCSS (in which case it can be deleted).

- `main.js` holds some default front-end JS. There's a function that places a checkmark next to the current day and some code that shows the restaurant's image in a modal. It's safe to edit this file to your liking.

**`/views`**

- The single view (`menu.liquid`) is located in this directory.

----

## To-do

Here is a list of things I am actively working on:

1. **Removing unused settings:** There are a few settings that I thought would be useful at the beginning of this project that have ended up being redundant, irrelevant, or replaced by defaults.

2. **Theme support:** I would like for the user to be able to quickly change between themes by changing a single line in the `bonsai.json` file. Themes, in this case, are entire front-ends. (CSS, JS, View).

3. **CLI Tool:** I'm looking into writing a CLI tool that can reduce the time spent on at least some of the more tedious tasks (think adding a lot of menu items). The tool will also be able to create new projects, update your local version of the tool, and perform various administration tasks.

Once these things are done, I think `bonsai-menu` will be ready for public use.

Commit message:

update readme to link to wiki

README.md, after:

# bonsai-menu

Easily create lightweight, attractive restaurant menu sites.

Check out the [Getting Started](https://github.com/andyxanthos/bonsai-menu/wiki/Get-Started) guide on the Wiki.

## Concepts

bonsai-menu reads configuration information from three JSON files: `bonsai.json`, `bonsai-menu.json`, and `hours.json`. This information is injected into the front-end using LiquidJS.

This project follows a "convention over configuration" mindset. bonsai-menu is designed to produce a functioning menu site as quickly as possible - even if that means making sacrifices in other areas. It should not take more than an hour to have a fully functioning menu site. *(depending on the length of the menu, of course)*

----

## Project Structure

**Configuration files:**

1. `bonsai.json` contains all "general" settings, as well as the majority of information about the restaurant itself (ex. name, address...).
2. `bonsai-menu.json` represents the menu itself. It is an array of "menu sections" - for example, "pizza" or "pasta." The individual items are nested within the sections.
3. `hours.json` holds information related to open/close times.

**`/dist`**

- The `dist` directory holds the source code. Note that the JavaScript files in this directory have been generated by the TypeScript compiler and are not intended to be edited.

- `app.js` is the entry point to the site. It sets up a route (GET "/"), runs some basic configuration functions, and starts listening on port `3040`.

- `types.js` is used primarily during development. This file probably shouldn't be changed too much if you don't know what you're doing.

- `Restaurant.js` and `Menu.js` define two classes, Restaurant and Menu (respectively). These two classes do the majority of the heavy lifting for bonsai-menu.

**`/static`**

- This directory contains static CSS and JavaScript files. You can safely edit the content of these files without worrying about doing significant damage.

- Note that there is an SCSS file in there as well. You are welcome to use SCSS or edit the `main.css` file directly. If you don't want to use SCSS, you can feel free to delete `main.scss`.

- Don't touch `main.css.map` unless you aren't using SCSS (in which case it can be deleted).

- `main.js` holds some default front-end JS. There's a function that places a checkmark next to the current day and some code that shows the restaurant's image in a modal. It's safe to edit this file to your liking.

**`/views`**

- The single view (`menu.liquid`) is located in this directory.

----

## To-do

Here is a list of things I am actively working on:

1. **Removing unused settings:** There are a few settings that I thought would be useful at the beginning of this project that have ended up being redundant, irrelevant, or replaced by defaults.

2. **Theme support:** I would like for the user to be able to quickly change between themes by changing a single line in the `bonsai.json` file. Themes, in this case, are entire front-ends. (CSS, JS, View).

3. **CLI Tool:** I'm looking into writing a CLI tool that can reduce the time spent on at least some of the more tedious tasks (think adding a lot of menu items). The tool will also be able to create new projects, update your local version of the tool, and perform various administration tasks.

Once these things are done, I think `bonsai-menu` will be ready for public use.
